Q1. What is the definition of information in the context of information theory?
Pergunta 1 Resposta
a. The number of bits in a message
b. Data stored in a file
c. Meaningful content that reduces uncertainty
d. A sequence of symbols
A: c

Q2. What is computation in the context of information and coding theory?
Pergunta 2 Resposta
a. The method used to compress information for efficient storage
b. A sequence of well-defined steps to process and transform data into a useful result
c. Storing data in memory for later use
d. The process of physically transmitting data over a network
A: b

Q3. What is the difference between analog and digital signals?
Pergunta 3 Resposta
a. Both are forms of digital data
b. Digital signals are continuous, while analog signals are discrete
c. Analog signals are continuous, while digital signals are discrete
d. Analog signals are used in computers, and digital signals are used in human communication
A: c

Q4. What is the key relationship between data and information?
Pergunta 4 Resposta
a. Data is processed information
b. Data and information are the same
c. Data always contains useful information
d. Information is processed data that provides context and reduces uncertainty
A: d

Q5. What is the entropy (in bits) of a fair coin toss?
Pergunta 5 Resposta
a. 2 bits
b. 0.5 bits
c. 1 bit
d. 4 bits
A: c

Q6. What are the limitations of lossless compression?
Pergunta 6 Resposta
a. Lossless compression always reduces data size by a fixed percentage
b. It cannot compress all data due to the lack of redundancy in some data types
c. It can compress all data by 50%
d. It can reduce the size of all data to zero
A: b

Q7. What is a signal?
Pergunta 7 Resposta
a. A function that conveys information about a phenomenon
b. A message sent between two computers
c. A tool for analyzing images
d. A device that sends information
A: a

Q8. What is quantization in Digital Signal Processing?
Pergunta 8 Resposta
a. Increasing the amplitude of a signal
b. Converting a signal into a continuous form
c. Mapping a continuous range of values into a finite set of discrete levels
d. Doubling the frequency of a digital signal
A: c

Q9. What is the Nyquist-Shannon Sampling Theorem?
Pergunta 9 Resposta
a. The frequency of a signal must be doubled after sampling
b. The signal must be sampled at least once per second
c. The number of bits required to represent a signal is twice its highest frequency
d. A signal must be sampled at least twice the highest frequency present in the signal to reconstruct it accurately
A: d

Q10. Which of the following types of values can represent a signal?
Pergunta 10 Resposta
a. All of the above
b. Vector values
c. Scalar values
d. Real and complex values
A: a

Q11. How is the quantity of information measured according to Shannon’s information theory?
Pergunta 11 Resposta
a. In bytes
b. In letters
c. In symbols
d. In entropy, measured in bits
A: d

Q12. Which of the following is an example of a digital signal?
Pergunta 12 Resposta
a. Sound waves in the air
b. Temperature measured by a thermometer
c. Light from the sun
d. An audio signal in an MP3 file
A: d
